chore: enhance docs, add FAQ page (#343)
cosmoconsult/alpaca: docs/en-us/support/github-al-go-faq.md

5. For COSMO-internal repositories, verify [Assign Organization/Repository to Entity](../github/assign-entity.md).
6. If the issue persists, use [Create Bug Report or Feature Request](bug-report.md).

## Where do I configure the BC version, country, artifacts, translations, or trusted NuGet feeds?

For GitHub repositories, the central place is the [AL-Go settings documentation](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md).

If you need the underlying Microsoft behavior, see the official AL-Go settings reference:

- [AL-Go settings overview](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md)
- [Where settings are stored](https://aka.ms/algosettings#where-are-the-settings-located)
- [Conditional settings](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#conditional-settings)
- [Overwrite and merge behavior](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#overwrite-settings)

## How do I change the BC version or localization of my containers and workflows?

Use the GitHub-specific guide [Change BC Version/Country](../github/change-container.md).

> The actual BC artifact selection is controlled by the AL-Go `artifact` setting. The detailed syntax is documented by Microsoft here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual BC artifact selection is controlled by the AL-Go `artifact` and `country` settings. The detailed syntax is documented by Microsoft here:
```

This is especially useful when you want to test AL-Go settings changes without affecting other users.

## Where do I find the general GitHub workflow with COSMO Alpaca?

If you want the high-level process from repository creation through container usage and pull requests, start with:

- [GitHub Walkthrough](../github/walkthrough.md)
- [GitHub (AL-Go) overview](../github/index.md)

## Where do I configure translations after the migration away from `alpaca.json`?

For GitHub repositories, translation settings now live under `alpaca` in the AL-Go settings.

Relevant docs:

- [Setup AL-Go Settings](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md#translations)
- [Migrating from alpaca.json](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md#migrating-from-alpacajson)

## Where is the official explanation for `versioningStrategy`?

The COSMO documentation references the Microsoft AL-Go behavior here:

- [Versioning Strategies](../github/versioning-strategies.md)
- [Setup AL-Go Settings](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md)
- [AL-Go `versioningStrategy`](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#versioningstrategy)

> ## How do I configure Minimum workflows, build modes or schedules for Update AL-Go System Files?

Reviewer: Maybe add an additional block for setting up automatic runs for "Test Current", "Test Next Minor" and "Test Next Major"?
See also comment in documentation for scheduling the update workflow

Author: done

Use:

- [Setup Minimum & Other Workflows](../github/setup-workflows.md)
- [AL-Go `workflowSchedule`](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#workflow-specific-settings)
- [Update AL-Go system files](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/UpdateAlGoSystemFiles.md)

> ## How do I migrate frequently used settings from `alpaca.json` to AL-Go settings?

Reviewer: Not sure if we should keep mentioning the alpaca.json.
New repositories do not contain a alpaca.json and the documentation could create confusions.

Reviewer 2: let's remove it, I think most Repos already migrated away from it

Author: removed it

- [Migrate from Azure DevOps to AL-Go for GitHub (with history)](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/MigrateFromAzureDevOpsWithHistory.md)

## I changed GitHub settings in a pull request, but the PR workflow still behaves like the target branch. Why?

That is expected for many AL-Go workflow files and settings scenarios. The authoritative behavior is described by Microsoft AL-Go. If the expected result depends on workflow changes themselves, verify the target branch state and not only the pull request branch.

Relevant docs:

- [AL-Go settings overview](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md)

## What does `"artifact": "//*//latest"` mean and when should I use it?

This artifact expression tells AL-Go to resolve the BC artifact version dynamically based on application dependencies (instead of pinning a fixed major/minor).

Use it when you intentionally want AL-Go to derive the compatible BC version from your app dependency graph.

Example:

```json
{
    "artifact": "//*//latest"
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: omit default values:
```suggestion
## What does `"artifact": "//*//"` mean and when should I use it?

This artifact expression tells AL-Go to resolve the BC artifact version dynamically based on application dependencies (instead of pinning a fixed major/minor).

Use it when you intentionally want AL-Go to derive the compatible BC version from your app dependency graph.

Example:

```json
{
    "artifact": "//*//"
}
```
```

## Where do I start when troubleshooting recurring GitHub/AL-Go problems?

Use this order:

1. Verify the repository setup in the [GitHub Walkthrough](../github/walkthrough.md).
2. Verify the effective settings in [Setup AL-Go Settings](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md).
3. Check BC artifact and country configuration in [Change BC Version/Country](../github/change-container.md).
4. Check dependencies in [Setup Artifacts to Import on Container Startup](../github/setup-artifacts.md).
5. For COSMO-internal repositories, verify [Assign Organization/Repository to Entity](../github/assign-entity.md).
6. If the issue persists, use [Create Bug Report or Feature Request](bug-report.md).

## Where do I configure the BC version, country, artifacts, translations, or trusted NuGet feeds?

For GitHub repositories, the central place is the [AL-Go settings documentation](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md).

If you need the underlying Microsoft behavior, see the official AL-Go settings reference:

- [AL-Go settings overview](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md)

> - [Where settings are stored](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#where-are-the-settings-located)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Where settings are stored](https://aka.ms/algosettings#where-are-the-settings-located)
```
please fix all al go setting links

- [Migrating from alpaca.json](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md#migrating-from-alpacajson)

## Where is the official explanation for `versioningStrategy`?

The COSMO documentation references the Microsoft AL-Go behavior here:

- [Versioning Strategies](../github/versioning-strategies.md)
- [Setup AL-Go Settings](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md)
- [AL-Go `versioningStrategy`](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#versioningstrategy)

## How do I configure Minimum workflows, build modes or schedules for Update AL-Go System Files?

Use:

- [Setup Minimum & Other Workflows](../github/setup-workflows.md)
- [AL-Go `workflowSchedule`](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#workflow-specific-settings)
- [Update AL-Go system files](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/UpdateAlGoSystemFiles.md)

## How do I migrate frequently used settings from `alpaca.json` to AL-Go settings?

Use:

- [Migrate Common Settings from alpaca.json](../github/migrate-common-settings.md)
- [Setup AL-Go Settings](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md#migrating-from-alpacajson)

> ## How do I migrate an existing repository from Azure DevOps to GitHub and then use COSMO Alpaca containers?

Reviewer 2: can we add a whole page on how to migrate?

I think we can mostly add the same steps as in https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/MigrateFromAzureDevOpsWithHistory.md but also our COSMO specifics (like repo naming) or stuff like how to migrate a cosmo.json to alpaca.json

maybe @ps610  can give some input from the migrations he did with people

and we should on that page also add a link to a general intro to GitHub and how the Alpaca workflow looks like with GitHub

Author: I tried to make it like a reference to create/set a new github repo, what do you think? [mirgrate docs](https://github.com/cosmoconsult/alpaca/blob/04cbf86b853c67dcb417d95a5e9b2329fd6aabaa/docs/en-us/github/migrate-from-azure-devops.md)

## What does `"artifact": "//*//latest"` mean and when should I use it?

This artifact expression tells AL-Go to resolve the BC artifact version dynamically based on application dependencies (instead of pinning a fixed major/minor).

Use it when you intentionally want AL-Go to derive the compatible BC version from your app dependency graph.

Example:

```json
{
    "artifact": "//*//latest"
}
```

Relevant docs:

- [Change BC Version/Country](../github/change-container.md)
- [How to select artifact version in migration](../github/migrate-common-settings.md#how-to-select-the-bc-artifact-version-in-al-go)
- [AL-Go `artifact` setting](https://github.com/microsoft/AL-Go/blob/main/Scenarios/settings.md#artifact)

## How do I enable XLIFF creation and validation in GitHub AL-Go settings?

Enable translation settings under `alpaca` in your AL-Go settings file.

Relevant docs:

- [Setup AL-Go Settings - Translations](../github/setup-al-go-settings.md#translations)
- [Migrate Common Settings from alpaca.json](../github/migrate-common-settings.md)

## How do I choose the right version strategy for my repository?

Start with strategy `3` unless you have a specific reason for another model.

> - `3`: `Major.Minor.Build` from `app.json`, `Revision` from workflow run number (recommended for most repositories)

Reviewer 4: where does this recommendation comes from?
imho al-go is easier with 0

Author: @OleWunschmann mentioned this in the [docs/en-us/github/setup-al-go-settings.md](https://github.com/cosmoconsult/alpaca/blob/d0bef669ce5ad5344c5ae43c9e7196824ec13ae5/docs/en-us/github/setup-al-go-settings.md?plain=1#L26)
